>>NARRATOR: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi everyone.
Hi.
Hey.
How are ya?
Good to see you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you, everyone.
This is "Spirit Talk,"
where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
I want to thank you all
for being here today
and joining us today.
And I thought in
today's show we'd
discuss something which
happens to all of us
when we kick the bucket.
[LAUGH] We all do die.
Ooh.
What is death?
Well, there is no
such thing as death.
We are, first and
foremost, a spirit
encompassing this
body, this human body.
It really is the overcoat,
if you will, of our spirit.
And the spirit never dies.
The spirit just leaves the body
and goes on to another level.
So when people talk about
death, there really is no death.
The two biggest
illusions we have
in the three-dimensional
world-- number one
is the sense that there's
death, which there is not.
You cannot kill energy.
Energy changes form.
And the other is a sense
of separativeness--
that we're separate
from one another,
when, in reality, we're all one.
We are well-connected
as that oneness--
the oneness, the greatness.
And I do believe from my many,
many years of communicating
with the spiritual realms
that when we first pass over
to the other side of life,
we have an awareness, number
one, that we are, indeed,
alive-- very much alive.
We're actually more alive out
of the body than in the body.
And spirit people refer
to us as the walking dead.
Is that funny?
The walking dead.
Because it seems that,
in the human body,
we're very, very concerned with
everything 9:00 to 5:00-- what
happens in front
of us, what's going
to happen with the
rest of the day, what's
going to happen with
our money and family,
and where are we
going from here?
And we live kind of in a
fear-based kind of motivation.
And I've got to
tell you that when
you leave the body, the
awareness that you have is,
wow.
I no longer am heavied by
this body, no longer burdened
by the body, and I'm so free.
I feel so incredibly alive.
And I remember when I was in
the confines of that body,
I felt like I wasn't alive.
And spirit people
often say that.
Spirit people often say that
you need to take time every once
and a while and
focus on yourself,
be centered with yourself, and
connect with everybody else.
The second greatest
illusion there
is a sense of
separativeness-- that we're
separate from one another
when, in reality, we're
all connected.
And when you pass over
to the spiritual realms,
you have the
awareness that you are
part of that person,
that person, that person,
and that we're all
connected, like a thread.
There's one big great
tapestry, and we're all
connected to each other.
It's a shame we don't realize
that while we're still
in the human body.
I think if we realized that,
that we were part of each other
and that what we
think about someone,
the words that are
expressed out of the mouth,
and these thoughts that we
have, the feelings that we have
that we portray to
somebody else-- boy,
if we could only see
what we did and how
it affected that person.
It's really not until
you go sometimes--
if you're not spiritually
aware when you're
walking in this human
body, unfortunately,
it's when you pass
away, when you die.
And I say it's a little
bit too late-- you know?
A little bit too late.
Because you have that
awareness too late,
when you're not in the
human, that, oh, wow.
And I've heard it from many
spirits who I've talked to.
"If only I knew then
what I know now,
I would have treated
people so differently.
I would have behaved
so differently.
I wouldn't have
said those things."
When you pass into
the spiritual realms,
you see the power
that words have.
You see the world
you left behind.
One of the first things that
happens after you pass over
is you have a life review where
you relive every single moment
you lived in the human body and
how your words, your thoughts
affected that person,
and that person,
and that person.
And in the spiritual realms,
you've got to look back
and you have to try
to forgive yourself
for the power, the words, the
thoughts, the emotions you
left behind with other people.
What did you create
in the lifetime?
When you were given-- your
soul was given the opportunity
to walk upon the
Earth and to interact
with other human beings and
to share that aspect of love--
it's an incredible opportunity.
It's an incredible opportunity.
And I think it'd be much
more beneficial to have
that realization when you're
still in the body-- the power
that your words and
your thoughts have.
And if you'd be aware of
that, and the responsibility
that you have of your
words, your thoughts,
your interactions
with other people,
I think you'd behave
very, very differently.
I really do.
Imagine that if tomorrow was
your last day on this Earth.
Imagine that.
How would you live
differently today?
>>AUDIENCE: I want to say,
tell people that you love them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You tell
people you love them.
Yes.
Very, very true.
>>AUDIENCE: Spend
more time with them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Spend
more time with people--
tell them you love them,
spend more time with them.
Mm-hm.
What about over here?
>>AUDIENCE: Do
something in nature.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You'd be
more in nature, you said.
>>AUDIENCE: I'd be riding
on a horse with my family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You'd be riding
on a horse with your family.
>>AUDIENCE: I'd
clear up conflict.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You'd
How many people
clear up conflict?
>>AUDIENCE: That would be good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Isn't that great?
OK.
So if you have that
awareness right
now that you would
clear up conflict,
why wait till tomorrow?
Why wait till tomorrow?
Why don't you do that today?
And why don't you be the bigger
person, the higher person?
And you can teach others by
you being that higher person.
>>AUDIENCE: Change your reaction
and you get a different action.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Change
your reaction--
she said change your
reaction because you
get a different reaction.
Love that!
Ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding.
Head of the class!
Ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding.
Exactly.
So it's being mindful.
We like to call this
"mindful"-- being mindful
of our thoughts, our
words, and our deeds.
How are you treating
another individual?
It's the Golden Rule.
Treat another person as
you want to be treated.
Because when it's
your time to pass over
to the other side of life and
you look back at your life,
your life review,
you're going to see
how you treated other people.
And people often ask
me, is there a Heaven
and is there a Hell?
And I say, yes,
but not necessarily
in the biblical traditions.
Heaven is really the
energy you've left behind.
What did you create while
you were on this Earth?
Did you make
somebody's life easier?
Did you demonstrate more
compassion, more love,
more forgiveness?
Or was it really
kind of negative,
where you tried-- you
put out negativity?
You didn't forgive.
You could have made someone's
life so much better,
you could have taken
the higher road,
but you chose to go down
to the lower levels.
Right?
Now that we're all here today
and you're watching this today,
please take away from
this just a reminder.
I'm here, honestly,
just to remind you
that this is who you are.
You're a spirit having
this human experience.
And I'm just a sign
post in the road
to remind you that you
are God in your own way.
You are all that.
God is total creation, and
God-- and I don't want--
don't even use the
religious sense of God.
But let's just say you're
part of that creation--
that incredible creation.
And to live up to that truth,
you have to live in alignment.
And really, you must
live in alignment
with that truth, which is love,
which is demonstrating love.
And it's so interesting--
the universe will always
give your tests.
Every day, we're
tested about love.
How many people here
have a difficult family?
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mostly
everybody in the audience--
I'm sure people at home.
It seems that, of course, that
biggest illusion, the sense
of being separate
from one another--
that we are all connected.
And if you've come back
on this Earth level
to learn from each other, you as
a soul group will teach-- well,
you'll come back and you'll
learn with your soul group.
So you'll mostly come
back with those members
who will teach you the most.
And in most case, it's family.
And if there are
some family members--
you can forgive
some family members
who create a certain situation.
You have to remember-- OK.
Instead of going to judgment,
which is fear-based,
you've got to step
back and say, mm-hm.
What lesson are they
teaching me about myself?
And if I'm going to
jump in and judge,
I'm just as bad as they are.
Right?
So I often say to people-- you
know, they ask about karma.
What does karma mean?
Well, how people treat
you is your karma.
How you react is your karma.
Right?
It's really, really very true.
So it's really
being-- the many years
I've been doing this work.
And it really is taking
a pause and stepping back
and seeing if a
situation goes on,
a certain scenario-- where
is that person coming from?
Our first reaction is to judge.
But judgement is
really fear-based.
But if we step back and look
at it with compassion-- OK.
What is this person
telling me, treating me?
What is their backstory?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Huh?
Right.
Because everybody you
meet has a backstory.
Everybody has a history.
And what will come to the
surface, you have to remember,
is always a combination of
their backstory, their values,
what they've been taught,
what they haven't been taught.
It's right there
in front of you.
And instead of judging
someone, just step in
and see what you can teach them.
How could you love them?
Treat them as you
want to be treated.
And really what it is-- it's
living a life of mindfulness,
being aware of what
you do to someone else,
what you say to somebody else.
And I always do
get by with that.
I always get by with a sense
of-- and I'm learning it, too.
I mean, every day
we're learning things.
In every situation,
we're learning something.
But I really do my best
to be mindful at changing
the scenario, changing the
energy around a person,
around a situation.
If I want them to be as
happy as I can be-- and let's
say they're depressed or they're
down or they're fear-based,
or whatever it might be,
if I go into that scenario
and I'm on that path, I'm
on that path for a reason.
I know there are no accidents.
I don't believe in accidents.
I know you don't
believe in accidents.
There are no accidents.
>>AUDIENCE: None.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Divine
intervention, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I believe our
higher self, the creative self,
the God itself, is
leading us on this path
we're meant to be because we're
interacting with another soul.
And we have to learn
something from them
or teach them or learn
something together.
That's really what it's about.
So if there is a person
in your life that you,
right now-- maybe you
were misinterpreted.
Maybe you showed judgment
where you shouldn't have.
And maybe it's
somebody in the body,
or maybe it's somebody
who left the body.
Maybe for a few seconds,
you can just think of them.
You might just close your
eyes for a few seconds.
And I just want you
to envision a person.
Whether it's in the
body or out of the body,
it doesn't matter,
because there is no death.
So they're either in the
body or out of the body.
Most of us are out
of the body, anyway.
With just a thought,
we leave the body.
And just send them a
bit of forgiveness,
understanding--
maybe as an apology.
That's fine.
And the important thing is
as you're sending this out
to them, I want you
to respect and to feel
the reaction that
your body gives you.
When you give out forgiveness,
how does it make you feel?
And just interpret that.
We spend so little
time to forgive others,
when really that's many
times why we're down here.
OK.
Great.
And open your eyes.
Anybody want to share
a reaction that they
had when you sent
forgiveness to somebody?
Any reaction?
>>AUDIENCE: You
just feel lighter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You feel lighter.
How many people felt lighter?
>>AUDIENCE: And relief.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And relief.
>>AUDIENCE: Settled down.
>>AUDIENCE: A sense of peace.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Settled down.
A sense of peace.
How many people felt
lighter, a sense of peace?
And that was not even
five minutes we did that.
Can you imagine if
we did a whole thing
and it was going on like that?
I've developed some forgiveness
meditations, and on my website
I have them.
Put yourself in that space.
It opens it up for healing-- not
only healing your relationship
with others, but, of
course, in healing yourself.
Because it all starts with self.
When you can forgive yourself
and start, it really begins.
So I think, saying
that, we should
do a healing
meditation for self.
How's that?
Ready?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah!
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Let's do that.
So we'll do a healing
meditation for ourselves.
Ahh.
So if you've never
meditated before, it's fine.
There's no right
way or wrong way.
It's a moment for you to be
just calmed down with yourselves
and just come back to yourself.
So just close your eyes.
And people at home watching
this, just close your eyes.
And just listen to
the sound of my voice.
And listen to the
music behind it.
Remember that you are, first
and foremost, a spiritual being
having this human experience.
And that you're actually being
here at this particular moment,
in this lifetime, on the Earth
at this particular moment,
it is meant to be.
There are no accidents,
only divine intervention.
We never know how one word, one
though, how we treat another,
the acts of kindness--
they really, really matter.
They multiply in the ethers
in the spiritual realms.
And as you become mindful
of that physical human body,
also send out a thought
of appreciation,
a thought of gratitude for this
human body, this human system.
And thank that human body
for bringing you from one
place to another, for
letting you travel,
for letting you
interact in life,
for letting that human
body express life itself.
Every space you go,
you change that space
with your own energy.
You leave an imprint of
yourself in every single space
you enter.
At this moment, I would like
you to pay attention and focus
your mind upon
your heart space--
that beautiful green light
at the heart, the seat
of the soul, the seat
of your beingness.
That heart space, that seed
that's tucked in that heart,
has been around for eons
and eons and eons of time,
whether on this planet or other
planets or other star systems.
In that little tiny
space in the heart,
there's a microcosm
and a macrocosm.
It's all one.
It's your God self.
It's your creation.
Be very, very mindful.
That beautiful hearts
space, that green light,
now expanding out
in front of you
and around you and behind you.
And just try to imagine
that that beautiful heart
space encompasses
you, this human body,
from the top of your head all
the way down to the bottom
of your feet, as if it's a
beautiful light, of cocoon
light, a green, healing
light-- a cocoon of light,
the spiritual being you are.
And as you become
aware of that, just
receive waves of
information about yourself,
about your soul self.
You are a child of the
universe, and I just
want you to imagine now
that your spirit steps out
of that body and
stands in front of you,
turns around, and
looks right at you.
And your brain
receives information
from that spirit body, that like
body, looking directly at you,
standing in front of you now.
And begin to receive
transmissions.
Begin to receive thoughts,
feelings, from your light body,
or spirit body to yourself.
And listen.
Listen with your heart.
Become aware of another
aspect of your being,
another aspect of yourself
which you hadn't seen before.
And as you step into
that space, everything
begins to lighten up.
Go back to a time in your
life when you were very, very
young-- a child-- and
flashing before you,
one scenario and
another scenario
where people stepped
into your life,
whether it was your
parents or siblings,
perhaps some childhood friends.
And just be mindful,
without judgment--
being mindful of what they were
there to teach you as a spirit.
What lessons did they come
upon your path to teach you,
and you them?
Bring yourself up
to teenage years,
just being mindful of
these scenarios flashing
in front of you.
What did you decide?
Did you decide to
judge the information,
criticize the information?
Did you demonstrate love and
compassion, understanding?
Bring yourself to your 20s.
Perhaps things have
changed a little bit,
being more of an
understanding, being
more aware because
you lived life longer.
How are the relationships
in your life in your 20s?
Where could you have
demonstrated more mindfulness
in your 20s?
Then your 30s, perhaps.
Where you could present more
mindfulness, more caring,
more understanding,
more compassion?
Not judging yourself, just
assessing-- assessing yourself,
assessing those moments in
your life, those lessons
in your life, those people
who came upon your path
to teach you and remind
you of your brilliance,
of your greatness--
that you are,
indeed, our God, you,
indeed, are spirit.
God always says yes.
The human says no.
Bringing yourself
to present day,
and just assessing, not judging.
Observing-- where
do you stand today?
Do you choose to treat others
as you want to be treated?
To be mindful of the words
that come out of your mouth,
the thoughts that come
out of your head--
you're creating every
single one of them.
When you leave
this Earth, do you
want to look back
at your life and be
proud of what you
left or do you want
to be ashamed of what you left?
What do you want to create?
And at this moment, in
that lovely clarity,
we send, again,
forgiveness and love
to those in the spirit world
and those in the living world.
And together, I would like
everybody at home and everybody
here in this audience to please
repeat these words out loud.
And let's change this
frequency and the vibration
that we're sitting in.
Please repeat.
Healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And so it is.
>>AUDIENCE: And so it is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And slowly open
up your eyes and be as one.
Yay.
I love sharing that with
you, as you can tell.
And I know a lot
of you received it.
And you went deep, very deep.
And if we could just
get some reactions,
I think people at home, it would
help them, too, to interact.
So would you mind
if I came to you
and asked your reactions
of that whole meditation?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
it's interesting
when I do the meditation,
because before my start,
and I talk, and spirit comes
through and really speaks
through me, and we then
go into the meditation,
I'm very, very aware--
and I'm sure many of you
are, as well-- of
the energy, and how
there's a shifting sometimes.
And it's so interesting.
Some audiences, they're
like, all over the place.
And then some are
very much together.
And with you guys, when
you first came here,
I felt you were pretty together.
But then after the meditation,
it really feels as one.
So I just experienced that.
And then when I see
the colors around you--
I can see the auric field.
Which, the aura is the
electromagnetic field
around every living thing.
And every thought you
have, every feeling,
is really projected
into that auric field.
So when I first
start a meditation,
I'll notice there are kind
of dull colors, sometimes.
And the envelope is
so close to the body.
And then afterwards,
it's out here
and brighter colors
and lighter colors.
And a lot of that
is for forgiveness.
So I noticed that you
went through a lot
of-- a lot of stuff
going on with you.
So tell us what you experienced.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Bill.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Bill.
>>AUDIENCE: Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And what
was your experience
like with the medication?
>>AUDIENCE: As far
as the stages that we
were going through-- growing
up, the childhood years,
the teens, the 20s, et cetera.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Most of the stuff
that I felt that I made contact
with, it was just petty little
things-- everyday interactions,
you know?
That kind of stuff.
Things that I maybe
said, and, uh--
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
things at the time
that you thought
were very important?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And now, looking
back, petty little stuff?
>>AUDIENCE: A lot of
it was ego stuff--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ego stuff.
>>AUDIENCE: --stuff that was,
you know, coming from my ego.
That's what
basically came to me.
Interactions with
people where, you know,
I was maybe being
controlling or projecting--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
own stuff onto them?
>>AUDIENCE: My own my stuff,
my own self-importance
and judgment of them, you know?
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's
really just wanting
to be validated many times.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, good.
thank you very much.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
could see it over your face,
sort of tearing, and I did see
the whole change happening.
Your auric field changed.
It got very bright.
>>AUDIENCE: So when it
gets bright like that,
what is-- how do
you interpret that?
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
really means you're
integrating, if you will,
you and your divine self--
your true self.
And when we start
forgiving ourself,
it washes away all that
stuff we're holding on
to-- the old stuff, the
ego stuff in some respects.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: When you
leave the physical body
at time of death, the
ego, in many cases,
you see it for what it is.
And usually it's
just judgment stuff.
It's like, well, I shouldn't
have worried about that.
It didn't mean much.
It was just my ego.
It was just my insecurities.
>>AUDIENCE: How long
does that go on?
>>VAN PRAAGH: It goes on for as
long as you want it to go on.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So number
one, you become aware.
That's the first step.
The first step is
becoming aware,
and you've done that-- the
intention, the intention.
Now you're aware of that.
And hopefully after
today you'll begin
to be more mindful
of those thoughts.
Treat another person as
you want to be treated.
I mean, that's really how
it works-- The Golden Rule.
It is the Golden
Rule for a reason.
It's treating
another as you want
to be treated because
we're that person.
We're every single person.
We're every single person
here in this audience.
And it's true.
So just live by the
awareness that I'm
going to treat someone else
as I want to be treated.
Start with that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
And when it gets kind of
weird and you get challenges,
you've got to try it harder.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
It comes back, doesn't it?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
It comes back.
>>AUDIENCE: Again and again.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Anybody else have an awareness
you want to talk about?
Yes.
OK.
Yes, you want to share with
us your awareness, yeah?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Hi.
My name is Liz.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi Liz.
Do you want to stand
up and share with us?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Actually, I felt
like I was connecting to you
even before today just
because of what you just said.
I have never in my life used
the word cocooning ever.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I've never
used that word, cocooning.
>>AUDIENCE: I have
never used it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Never.
>>AUDIENCE: And last night,
I was on a plane coming here,
and I had a lot of
problems going on with it.
And I sent a text to my
friend who lives here
in Denver saying, I haven't
spoken to you in a while
because I've been cocooning.
And when I sent that text--
I can show you on my text.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I believe you.
I do believe you.
Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: When I sent that
text, I meant it in a way
that I was closing
myself up to the world
because I'm going through
some difficult times.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Some
internal stuff.
>>AUDIENCE: And I was
acting from a place of fear,
and anxiety, and stress.
And when you had me cocooning--
now I'm going to cry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Crying's good.
>>AUDIENCE: It was like a
completely different definition
of the same word, cocooning,
where I felt engulfed in love.
And it was a lot more of a--
just a different kind of energy
from the same word that, 24
hours ago-- 12 hours ago,
was so restricting.
It was very enlightening.
So I thank you for that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Maybe
because you're
beginning to see yourself
from a different light.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, at least
the experience that I'm going
through from a different--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A
different perspective.
>>AUDIENCE: --perspective.
>>VAN PRAAGH: If you
step back and say,
what is it teaching you?
And instead of it
getting brought
into the judgment and the fear
and, oh, what's happening here?
That's the usual reaction
most people have,
instead of, what am
I learning from this?
How am I going to handle this?
And really have fun with it.
So you should never let
someone else's truth
get involved in your own truth.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: When you
make somebody else's power
your power, you're
empowering them
and you're taking away
from your own power.
And you will not be happy
until you empower yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
thank you very much.
I'm really proud
of everyone here.
And that is definitely
something which
you can take home with you.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to come to
come to this lady right here.
May I come to you, here?
Because I have a lady who
wants to speak to you.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Ronnie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ronnie,
would you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thanks, Ronnie.
I have a lady.
She feels like a mother
figure to me, here.
So I've got to go with you here.
I'm not sure it's a
mother or a mother-in-law,
but it's really like
a mother feeling.
So motherly, OK?
I'm just going to get
more information for you,
and I'm just going to just
work with this lady who's
coming in here.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know this
lady that I'm speaking to now
is talking about being in
your corner all the time.
I know that also she would
have been kind of a teacher--
not necessarily the
literal sense of a teacher,
but more of a spiritual
teacher for you.
OK?
Teaching you things.
I would tell you
that when you were
a young girl, the apple
of your father's eye--
I've got to tell you that.
I need to let you know that.
OK?
I think this lady might be
connected to your father,
but I'm not 100% sure.
Do you know someone that grew
up on a farm or near pastures
or farmland, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
My-- my family.
My grandpa and grandma, both.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I would
know that this woman that's
coming through to me here
would know about a farm,
would know about pastures,
would know about greenery.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
wouldn't you have
known of her in the lifetime?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did
you have a sister that
used to go see
her and visit her?
>>AUDIENCE: We both did.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's correct.
Right?
You and your sister used to
go to my house all the time.
And I know that you would
be at that kitchen table.
Because I'm very
much of a memory
that this grandmother shows me.
And now we're at
the kitchen table.
Now, I'm aware
also there might be
a formal table in another room.
But I also know that there's a
little kitchenette table, too,
or kitchen table.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I'm very aware, also,
that there's a tablecloth,
like-- um, what was it?
Plaid.
A plaid tablecloth.
Would you remember anything
about-- mm-hm, right--
her dishware that
she used to have?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
would you remember
that that dishware-- because
as this lady comes in to me,
she shows me flowers
on the dishware.
>>AUDIENCE: It was wheat.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wheat.
>>AUDIENCE: It was brown--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, brown stems.
>>AUDIENCE: --with brown
little wheat flowers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Are you connected,
the two of you?
Are you sisters or friends?
>>AUDIENCE: Best
friends of 30 years.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Best friends?
Connection?
30 years.
You're really connected.
I mean, you're like
girlfriends, or together--
partners or something, here,
because I've got to tell you,
you're together.
This lady here is
showing me-- go on.
I understand that.
She's very, very
sweet, this lady.
So this would be a
grandmother feeling.
A grandmother comes in.
And I know that you need to
let her know-- now what?--
that she loves you,
she honors you.
She knows you more now than
she did when she was alive,
and she needs to
let you know that.
OK?
I also need to ask if there was
a storm cellar at that house.
Do you remember?
>>AUDIENCE: Um, yeah.
Outside.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The two doors?
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
And you'd go down.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yep.
And you'd open them this way.
You'd go down them.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
Right on the farm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she shows
me the concrete steps-- yes.
Being on a farm.
But I'm very aware the storms--
would you have a grandfather
that you would know about?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you know
if he would wash the car?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you
remember the memory
of washing the car in that
driveway, near that house?
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: It was-- yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And wouldn't you
help him sometimes, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
It was a truck.
>>VAN PRAAGH: An old truck.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
because I'm seeing it very, very
clearly in my mind's eye.
And they're both here
projecting an image to me.
So the spirits come in as
one, and they meld together
a thought.
I'm going to cry.
And I'm showing you--
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You can cry,
because tears cleanse the soul.
So we know that we're
connecting with the spirit
when this happens.
And it's a healing not
only for you, but for them.
Because I know
that they want you
to know that we are a part
of your life, and we accept,
acknowledge, want
you to know this.
And who's Suzanne or Susie?
You know that name?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, Suzanne.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Suzanne.
Well, Susan, I want to
thank you from her grandma
for being there for her.
You understand that.
Her grandmother is thanking
you for taking care of her.
And between the two of
you, who's the wild driver?
>>AUDIENCE: She is the crazy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She is.
Because I don't know what-- she
was telling me about something
recently happened with driving.
And you're like, stop.
You've got to turn around.
Or something happened
recently with driving.
I don't know if you
went the wrong way
or you didn't listen to the GPS.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Didn't
that just happen?
>>AUDIENCE: Yesterday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I was going
to say, within two days.
Right.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good, good, good, good.
OK, right.
>>AUDIENCE: And I saw her
mom-- her mom passed away,
and I saw her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You saw her mom.
Well, I know that her
grandma wants to thank you.
And may I come to
you next, please?
So we'll just go
around the line.
You can just pass
it over to her.
Would you mind standing?
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Susan.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Susan.
Did you used to get things from
your mother from the pharmacy,
and you used to go on runs
and buy things for her,
get things for her and
bring them back to her?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know before
she passed over, she was just--
she's full of life, this lady.
She's full of life.
And I have her
grandma, and now I'm
getting this lady over here.
And didn't your mother have
a brother on the other side?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he's met her over there.
He's met her over there, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that family separations--
so, that happens-- are
now bygones be bygones.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
You understand that.
And I know in your family
that it would not only
be from the spirit
side of life, but also
right now in the Earth life.
So I know there'd be
family members that
are separated in some
way, that have not
spoken to-- whether
it's siblings,
or-- have not spoken to them,
your mother's telling me.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Go on.
You know, I know that you said a
lot of prayers for your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that.
I'm very aware as she comes in.
Would you have one of your
mother's paintings, please?
>>AUDIENCE: I had a friend
of my grandmother's painting.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And isn't it worth some money?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
feeling this in my head.
The painting's worth some money.
Don't cash it in, but
it's worth some money.
And it must have been recently,
you were looking at that
and had that thought-- hmm.
I wonder if that's
worth something.
Not to sell it, but there must
have been a thought about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
It's hanging in my cabin.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Thank you very much.
And I want to go over
here to this lady.
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Cindy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Cindy.
Would you mind standing, please?
Because I have your father here.
I have a grandmother here also.
And I have a gentleman here that
would also be a grandfather,
it feels like to me.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I need to let you
know that your dad feels
very, very proud to me.
He's a very, very proud man.
And I've got to tell you that
he's very-- he loves you very,
very much, and I've
got to tell you
that, again, I feel like it's
his opportunity to give you
forgiveness, and he
wants to say he's sorry.
And I don't know why
he's saying it to me,
but he needs to
express that to you.
Do you hear him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
you've had conversations
with this man, because I know,
in your head, you think of him.
And he stands right next
to you, and he sends you
thoughts into your mind.
And that is how spirit
will communicate.
They project.
Now, I'm very, very aware of
somebody doing water paint--
watercolors.
>>AUDIENCE: My aunt.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
aunt did watercolors.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
did your aunt ever
teach you about
watercolors, or did she
give you a painting of hers?
>>AUDIENCE: She did.
Several.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She did.
Thank you very much.
I know that she'd be
here with your dad.
And she shows me
that watercolors.
And that's patience,
and she said joy.
She said to me, [SIGHS]
you have found more joy
in your life in the past
10 years than ever before.
>>AUDIENCE: That's true.
That's true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that the
spirit world has
helped you to find that joy,
and the joy is really inner joy.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can I just
say it started from inside?
And just like the exercise
we were doing before
about the meditation
and becoming
aware of who we are
as a self, a spirit,
you have definitely done that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that when
you've done that, in
the past 10 years--
and you are teaching
your father a lot.
>>AUDIENCE: He was
a stubborn man.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're teaching
your dad a lot from spirit.
You're teaching him a lot.
Was there a cane before he
passed over, do you know?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
There was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
see the man with a cane.
And, um, no longer
needs that to walk.
And it's very interesting,
because he said, in some ways,
it was a crutch.
And he said, in
his way, he was not
taught in life to
demonstrate his feelings.
And he's sorry about that.
But I know that
you've taught me much,
he says-- many, many things.
He's also-- and he comes
with that lady, the aunt.
I'm not sure who else it is.
There are two other ladies
that are around you right here.
And one is connected
with your father.
I don't know who it is.
It might be a mom.
I don't know.
But I feel it could be.
OK?
And I'm not sure about a ring
that you have that didn't fit?
You must have had
a ring of hers?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Her wedding ring.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
the wedding ring.
But at first it didn't fit.
We had to resize it.
Or is it a different size?
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: I had it
made into a necklace.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Because I know it didn't
fit your finger, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that there would
have one time been a hair
comb, and the flowers on
the end of that hair comb
like I just put in my hair.
>>AUDIENCE: That was probably
my grandmother's-- my maternal
grandmother's.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And do you remember a
picture of that, or even
having that comb with
the flowers on the edge?
It's like-- I don't
know what they
call them-- hair
combs or barrettes?
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Hair comb.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hair comb.
>>AUDIENCE: It was a hair comb.
And I just want to tell you
that she comes in with that.
That's the second lady.
Your mother is also here.
OK?
And I'm going to tell you--
who had the heart condition,
please?
>>AUDIENCE: My mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
So it's the mom with
the heart condition.
And I know that I'm
just, uh, [SIGH].
She's really funny.
And when she trusts somebody,
she trusts them 100%.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because at first
she stepped on this stage,
and you said, you
didn't know who I was
or what this was about.
And she saw my
breathing-- [PANTING]
because we're at high
altitude here in Denver.
And she's relating to me.
She needed oxygen,
too, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, I
need oxygen, she goes.
I understand it.
But the heart
palpitations she had--
she had heart palpitations.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
said, it took me over.
It took me over.
And she said, I
wasn't really fearful.
I wasn't really fearful.
Now, your mother
would give a piece
of her mind, where
your father would not.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
father would kind of
step back in his own way.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know?
And I know that the
house is very important.
So the house-- the house they
lived in or the father's house,
it was very important.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
And would you also
know that there
might have been somebody else
who had to live in that house,
that they had to move in
upstairs or someone had
to move into the house?
>>AUDIENCE: I did, at
one point in my life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You did.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
You did.
Because I know about moving
into the house-- my house.
You moved into my house.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
OK.
Now, I know that I want to
be careful of the kidneys.
>>AUDIENCE: It could be my
brother-in-law, who was just
diagnosed with kidney cancer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I'm very
aware of your mom and your dad
together with the thought
about the kidneys,
that they got to be
careful about the kidneys.
So, uh huh.
And did that person's father
pass over on the other side?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So, would
you give a message
to the person that
has a kidney problem
that his father is
over here watching him?
But I want you to-- if you
can please be the medium.
You'll have to be the medium.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
would you please--
that's what happens, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
if you could just
pass on, because I know his
son needs to know that he's OK,
and that his father is saying,
you need to take care of that.
It'll be OK.
Don't make these
horrible scenarios,
these terrible
scenarios in your head.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But he
said please tell him.
So please, would you--
>>AUDIENCE: I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that's coming
from over here, on my far side.
>>AUDIENCE: I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Um, I
think that, um-- go on.
Right.
Who had a puppy,
just got a puppy,
was thinking about
getting a puppy?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
just got the puppy.
>>AUDIENCE: I just
adopted a puppy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Can I just thank you
from the spirit world
about the puppy, which you just
rescued, that you just took in?
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I'm thanking you
on behalf of the
spirit around-- and I'm
going to cry now, because I'm
an animal person-- that you
did the work--
you did good work.
Marks to the head of the class.
Because when you respect
another life like that,
you really give that joy.
So, I love you.
I love your energy.
And I know you do
teach those in spirit.
I know your father's
very proud of you.
I know that your father
was a very private man
in his lifetime.
I know there's a whole part
of him-- another country
at one point.
I know that there was a very
secretive type of situation
or scenario.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that part of his
life was in an envelope.
So he said find a manila
envelope and part of his life
would be in there.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And, um, I've got
to tell you your father has no
regrets about his past--
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --as
far as his own life.
He made his own decisions.
And your mother is a lady who I
want to go out and party with.
I want to have a
great time with her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I want to join you.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
have a good time with her.
And one more thing,
and I'll move on here.
I want to go stitching or
ribbons or making something
with your mom.
>>AUDIENCE: My mom used
to crochet a lot and--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I'm like this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just want
to make these stitches.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I love that.
I like her.
She's go for it.
Whenever you need like,
strength, just ask your mom.
She's there.
One more thing, then
I'm going to move on,
because I have a lady over here.
But I'll ask you one more thing.
Who had the seashell
or seashells?
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your grandmother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And when you grew
up, do you remember listening--
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --to the ocean.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
would say, here you go.
Listen to the ocean
with the seashell.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she's
stepping right forward here,
and she wants to
give you her love.
And she said-- and she's
talking about her nails being
nicely done.
OK?
Nice nails.
Funny.
It comes up.
And she talks about that
seashell in the ocean.
And I get very, very
emotional from that.
And, um, I've just
got to tell you
they're all so proud of you.
They're so proud of you.
And again, teaching-- you
could have taught growing up.
You could have taught somebody.
You're a great teacher.
You're a great healer.
You do have artistic ability.
Music is very high
as well, with you.
And, um, I just want to say I'm
honored to be here with you.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So, thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: And it holds true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
May I come to you, over here?
This young lady over there?
Would you mind?
OK.
Your mama passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Anita.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Anita?
Would you mind
standing please, Anita?
I have a lady-- two
ladies here, and I
feel it could be a mom and
a mom, or mom and grandma.
Mom and her mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
Because I feel your mom and her
mother does things together.
They do things together.
Would you know
anyone with the name
of Angelina, Angela,
Angel-- something like this?
A-N-G name at all-- a friend
of yours or a family member?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And who was that?
>>AUDIENCE: My daughter-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
your daughter-in-law.
Great.
And weren't you recently
just talking with her,
talking to her, about her--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
were you with her?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Where were you with her,
on the phone, or what?
>>AUDIENCE: Just texting.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You were texting.
OK.
Great.
Because I'm very aware that
your mom is with you when you're
texting this Angel,
Angela person.
Is that her name, Angela?
>>AUDIENCE: Angela, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Angela.
Great.
And when was that you were
texting her-- last night,
this morning?
>>AUDIENCE: Day
before yesterday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Day before.
OK.
You're a lovely person.
You're a very,
very lovely person.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And your
mom wants to thank you.
I see a nurse now behind you.
So I see a nurse behind
you, which tells me
that you could have been
into metaphysical work
as far as healing work, or
doing something, wanting
to do some healing work
yourself, or being healed,
going through some
health situation.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Both.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Both.
There you go.
OK.
Great.
I know that you must
have not-- go on.
Go on.
Let your mom come in.
Your mother is very
much, um, a part
of the situation right now.
And she's trying to
talk in your space.
And she said you
react way too quickly.
You react way too quickly.
You jump into things
without thinking.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
And I want to talk about
a cancerous condition.
>>AUDIENCE: My mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your mother did.
Of the body, a
cancerous condition.
And I feel it could have been
in one situation, one place,
and then it spreads.
OK?
And I know-- I know whether
you're giving her herbs
or you try to tell her
a different way of doing
some healing work or
alternative ways of healing,
or you might have discussed
that with her at one time.
But she's talking about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: All of the above.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does that make
sense to you, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
remember that, right?
So when spirits come
back and communicate,
they communicate in memories.
They don't see us like we
see each other right now,
because they're outside of time.
So they talk about old ways.
Now, I must-- I
must say-- go on.
Go on.
Did she lose her
hair at one point?
>>AUDIENCE: She was afraid she
was going to lose her hair.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She was afraid
she was going to lose her hair.
OK.
Because on about her hair, and--
>>AUDIENCE: She had me
cut it all off because she
thought she was
going to lose it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, she cut
it all off because-- OK.
OK.
Well, she said she has
a full head of hair.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She has
a full head of hair.
And I also want to
tell you that-- go on.
Go on.
Uh huh.
I appreciate the
view of the window.
The window.
So I don't know if you
changed something around,
where she was
looking out a window.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
So it might have been in
the hospital bed or the bed
she passed away in, but
I know that that's there.
I also want to ask
if there was someone
who prayed to Saint
Mary or Blessed Mother
or this sort of a thing?
>>AUDIENCE: It might have
been my mother-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
mother-in-law.
OK.
Did she pray to the Mother Mary?
>>AUDIENCE: She-- yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK so she must've
had them sing the "Ave Maria"
or they must have sang the
"Ave Maria" at her funeral.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
They did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Got it.
Because I know that I loved
hearing the "Ave Maria."
I got it.
Thank you very much.
And I know that the Blessed
Mary, the Virgin Mary,
is really, really
important to this woman.
I know that.
I know that there would
have been either a wake--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: --for her, and I
know that there would have been
a lot of religious items
there, prayer cards .
I know that-- if
you would remember,
was she wearing a yellow dress?
Would they put her in a
yellow dress in the coffin?
Do you remember that?
A cream-colored yellow dress?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
Oh my goodness, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because-- OK.
All right.
It's weird what they show me.
But she's coming
through with that,
like a yellowish cream dress.
And I know that she's like,
looking down at the body,
and she's just standing
over looking at it.
And I know that she thought they
had a lot more makeup on her
than they should have.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know--
she's telling me there
was a comment made
about the makeup on her
and getting her hair right.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: As a
matter of fact, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
It's the little things
that the spirit is aware of
and what they can talk about.
Now you think, why would
she talk about that?
Well, that could be something
that you would remember
that made a significant
in-- into your head,
that you remembered that.
I also got to tell
you that there
was some talk-- she's going on.
And the mother-in-law's very
different than your mother,
by the way-- very
different personalities.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I've got to tell you
that they get along
fine now, but when
they were on the Earth, we
don't really see eye-to-eye.
Would you know about-- and I
know about your mother-in-law,
that you really took
heart in that situation.
You really kind of
took care of things.
And that is the situation I've
got to come here with you,
and I want to thank
you for doing that.
Your mother's off to the side
over here, which is fine.
I'm just going to
put her to the side,
and your mother-in-law
wants to come in.
Would you tell your husband
hello for her, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Tell him-- yes.
Please do that, would you?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And was there
jewelry that was-- someone
was wondering, should we
bury her with that jewelry
or do you take the jewelry
off the body before you buried
it, please?
She said you did.
>>AUDIENCE: I didn't do it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Someone
did that in the family?
>>AUDIENCE: But, yes.
They did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They did.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
You understand that?
That's just a validation
that that happened.
So, that's it.
And I want to
thank you your mom.
Thank you for
everything you did.
And I want to say, did you
kiss her on the forehead?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
has that memory of that.
So I leave you with her love
and your mother-in-law's love.
Thank you very much.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So, I have a
gentleman coming in here,
and he feels like a father.
And I want to go right in this
neighborhood right over here.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Caitlin.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Christina.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, would
you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, sir.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And you understand about the
gentleman that's coming in?
He sounds like a grandfather
or a father feeling.
Would it be in
your mother's side
of the family or
your father's side?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Our mother's.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
mother's side.
And your mother's still living.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But she
would have had run-ins
sometimes with her father.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Do you know anybody
named Jimmy or Jim?
>>AUDIENCE: I think
that was his real name,
her biological father.
But we--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I get this
name, Jimbo or Jimmy.
You know, they
call me Jimbo Jim.
And I drink a little bit.
I drink a little bit--
I've got to tell you.
I drink a little bit.
And I feel like I want to stand
away from, um, controversy
and not get involved in stuff.
OK?
I don't know if you two are
university, or university age.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah?
And you're twins.
>>AUDIENCE: Woo!
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you answer together.
Woo!
And wasn't there-- this man
is coming with a lady here.
I think it's a grandma,
but I'm not sure.
So I just want to
play with this.
And I want to ask you--
regarding your grandmother--
hold on right now.
Hold on.
Right.
Stop.
Slow down.
Right.
Do you two have to be the
mother to your mother right now?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
No, no.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
OK.
Your mom is fine.
Everything is OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yeah.
She's-- yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't know
if her coping skills are
a little strange right now or
if she feels very stressed,
but her father is
telling me that she's
a little stressed right now.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
And I don't know if
you two are worried
about separating for university
or separating like that.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And that just recently-- you
had that thought about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he's telling me over here.
I know that there
would be-- got you.
Do you have an uncle?
Do you have a son?
Does he have a son, this man?
Did you have an uncle?
Did your mother have a brother?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And still living, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Would you find out if your uncle
owns one of this man's belts?
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: He probably does.
>>AUDIENCE: Probably.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I'm also seeing
now-- I'm seeing jeans,
like someone used to
wear jeans all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was out
wearing jeans all the time.
So it might be him wearing
jeans all the time.
And he really doesn't give
a hoot about anything,
he's just himself.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep, that's Papa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
He doesn't give a
hoot-- and that's
the word he would use, hoot.
Yep.
And I know the big city
was a big deal for you.
What does the 17th mean to you?
Is that--
>>AUDIENCE: That's our birthday.
>>AUDIENCE: Birthday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Birthday?
December?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And did you go to the
city, or was there
a trip to a city around
your birthday time?
Was there a big trip to a
city, he's talking about.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh, went to
LA for school this year.
>>VAN PRAAGH: This year?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And you're done now
because it's summertime.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are
you going back again?
>>AUDIENCE: Not to that one.
I'm going to school with her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Where are
you going to school?
>>AUDIENCE: Earlham College.
>>AUDIENCE: Indiana.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I love these two.
Can we just talk
about soulmates?
And you obviously are soulmates.
>>AUDIENCE: I hope so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you really
are very, very well-connected.
I've got to tell you that the
man that comes through-- he
wants to give a
message to your mother.
And I know this man
that comes through-- he
doesn't say he was
always there for her.
I've got to tell you that.
And again, he didn't show
his feeling very well.
And he liked to be by myself.
And I think he'd be in his
own little room or a part
of the garage, or he'd liked
to be in his own little space.
Do you remember that?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: In the
living room, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The living room.
But he wanted to be
in his own space.
I want to be in my own chair.
And that was his chair?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh my god.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
He didn't want
anybody on that chair.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
was his chair.
Get off my chair!
Get off it.
And that's how he's sounding.
Get off my chair!
That's how he would be, you see?
And I know that-- ahh,
like that expression.
He says, ahh, and he'd
use his hands like this.
And I've got to tell you that I
don't know if he didn't attend
one of his kid's
weddings where there
was a problem with the wedding.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
there was a problem
with the wedding recently, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So he's just telling
me about that.
He was aware of the
problem about the wedding.
And somebody didn't get
to the wedding or someone
couldn't make the wedding, or--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
Someone wasn't allowed
to attend the wedding.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Someone wasn't
allowed to attend the wedding.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he's
understanding these things now.
He said, what?
Putting your troubles
in a round tin box.
He just told me about that.
He's telling me that
somebody has a box
and they put
their-- interesting.
Go on.
Keepsakes in a box
with a ribbon on it.
So would you find out--
if that's not you guys--
>>AUDIENCE: It's our mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's your mom.
So would you find out--
because he's telling me
about the box with the
ribbon, and it's keepsakes.
And he said a photograph
of him is in that box.
And you'll have to find
out if he knows that.
OK?
And do you know if
there was a Charles
in the family, or a Chuck?
>>AUDIENCE: Charlie.
>>AUDIENCE: Who's Charlie?
Who was that?
>>AUDIENCE: He's our uncle,
and Chuck is the name of--
>>AUDIENCE: Papa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
Chuck is the name
of Papa, this man
that I'm talking to.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK, good.
So that's just a validation that
it's him that I'm talking to.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that he can
have a little swig if he
wants to, on his own--
a little swig of
whisky or something.
He wants it on his own.
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Papa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's great.
That was just his
personality coming through,
and to show you that
this is who it is.
And, um, he's really
proud of you kids.
Can I just say he's
really proud of you.
And I'm sorry I couldn't
give you the money
like I could have.
I wish I had more money to give
you, or more financial help.
He really wished he could
give you more financial help.
But, um, I've got to
tell you I do feel--
I get very emotional--
that in World War II,
or there was a war
this man was a part of.
And I know that he saw some
people die in that war.
And I know that he said to
me, I never got over that.
He never got over that,
seeing some death around him.
He never got over it.
And he didn't talk to
people about it a lot.
But I know that part of
that drinking a little bit
was because of that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's so sensitive.
Now, would you remember
playing Monopoly?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh my gosh.
A family trad-- yes.
I hate that game.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But you remember
the Monopoly game, the board.
And I don't know if you'd
play at the household,
and it would drive him crazy--
>>AUDIENCE: It did.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: It was downstairs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Drive him crazy, and then he'd
be off-- you'd be in acorner.
And, ahh.
I get very emotional here.
Go on.
What?
You're allowed to say that?
OK.
So-- he's allowed to say that.
Do you have a grandmother
in spirit with him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is your
grandmother with him?
His wife?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No?
Who's the lady over there,
the other side of the family
grandma?
>>AUDIENCE: Our dad's grandma.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
there's a grandma
from-- wants to say
hello to you guys.
I know that.
And she's all dolled up.
She's very pretty.
You know.
She wouldn't come to
an event like this
without being prettified,
without being gussied up.
And she looks very pretty.
And I've got to say that to you.
She's honored to be here.
And you guys will have
children of your own one day.
You know that, you know?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, no.
>>AUDIENCE: Sorry!
Sorry!
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're going to
have children of your own one
day.
But I have to tell
you something--
it's really funny between you
two, because you both have
to approve each other's
partners, and this sort
of thing.
>>AUDIENCE: We do.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because like-- ooh.
Go on.
Got to what?
And be aware of Las Vegas.
So I know there was
wanting to go to Las Vegas,
so I guess when you
were in LA or now,
there was talk
about going to Vegas
or having a thought
about Las Vegas.
Would you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: She wants
to live in Las Vegas.
>>AUDIENCE: I wanted to
go to school in Las Vegas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, you
wanted to go to Las Vegas.
OK.
And didn't you go there for
visit and have fun yet there?
>>AUDIENCE: No, not yet, no.
>>AUDIENCE: We drove
through the-- yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
On our way here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
But isn't there
something-- because I'm
getting this other
grandma talking about,
and you know, you tell them
Las Vegas will be coming in
for them.
So you're going to
go and have fun.
You're not going
to have crazy fun.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You girls don't
do crazy fun, which is great.
But you will.
You're going to go to Las Vegas.
She's promising you that,
which is very interesting.
>>AUDIENCE: Thanks, Grandma.
Grandma, I love you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because in a
way, she couldn't live life.
In a way, she was--
she couldn't live life.
She was like, she was
in a box and her life
was predescribed for her.
Do you understand that?
And she's going to
live through you girls.
OK?
And she wants me to
tell you that she's
going to live through you girls.
It goes to show you there is no
death, and that she's living.
She's so funny,
because she said,
I'm living through you guys.
And spirit can do that.
They can live
through your essence,
and they can be around you.
And she's guiding you.
And I'm going to
tell you one thing.
When you go to Vegas,
which you will do,
because she's going
to make it happen,
just be mindful of the
signs you receive from her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because you don't
even have to look for them,
but you're going to
get signs and she's
going to influence you.
And you're two really,
really good girls.
You really are.
You're wonderful.
You have great energy.
It's so interesting that
you're here in this show
when we're talking about
thoughts and mindfulness,
because, you know, you're
born with mindfulness.
You're very, very-- You're
born with the awareness
that you treat people as
you want to be treated.
I mean, you were-- that's great.
And I've got to tell you that.
And both of your parents are
still living, aren't they?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, sir.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because I know that I
want to give from this man
here, this grandfather, a
thank you to them.
That must be to your mom.
And would you let
her know that-- what?
Great.
That she dreamt of him,
and the dream was right.
The dream was real.
OK?
So would you let her
know that that's real?
She needs to hear that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
God bless you girls.
Lots of love.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yay.
Everybody also
that's watching, I
want to thank you all
for joining us today.
And I just want
you all to remember
that your thoughts are things.
Be mindful.
And take a step back and
pause before you react.
Thank you very much.
Love and light until next time.
Bye bye.